CockroachDB product (#4698)
captn3m0/endoflife.date: products/cockroachdb.md

---
title: CockroachDB
category: database
iconSlug: cockroachlabs
permalink: /cockroachdb
alternate_urls:
-   /cockroach
-   /crdb
versionCommand: cockroach version
releasePolicyLink: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/release-support-policy
changelogTemplate: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/v__RELEASE_CYCLE__
releaseDateColumn: true

> activeSupportColumn: Maintenance
> eolColumn: Assistance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
activeSupportColumn: Maintenance Support
eolColumn: Assistance Support
```

As defined in https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/release-support-policy.

auto:
  methods:

>   -   custom: cockroachdb

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -   git: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach.git
  -   release_table: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/release-support-policy
      selector: "table"
      headers_selector: "thead th"
      rows_selector: "tbody tr"
      fields:
        releaseCycle: "Version"
        releaseDate: "Release Date"
        support: "Maintenance Support ends"
        eol: "Assistance Support ends (EOL Date)"
```

See https://github.com/endoflife-date/release-data/pull/319#issuecomment-1965329009. Also added the git configuration so that latest releases are automatically updated.

    releaseDate: 2020-05-12
    support: 2021-05-12
    eol: 2021-11-12
    latest: "20.1.17"
    latestReleaseDate: 2021-05-17

-   releaseCycle: "19.2"
    releaseDate: 2019-11-12
    support: 2020-11-12
    eol: 2021-05-12
    latest: "19.2.12"
    latestReleaseDate: 2021-01-19

-   releaseCycle: "19.1"
    releaseDate: 2019-04-30
    support: 2020-04-30
    eol: 2020-10-30
    latest: "19.1.11"
    latestReleaseDate: 2020-07-07

-   releaseCycle: "2.1"
    releaseDate: 2018-10-30
    support: 2019-10-30
    eol: 2020-04-30
    latest: "2.1.11"
    latestReleaseDate: 2020-01-29

-   releaseCycle: "2.0"
    releaseDate: 2018-04-04
    support: 2019-04-04
    eol: 2019-10-04
    latest: "2.0.7"
    latestReleaseDate: 2018-12-10

-   releaseCycle: "1.1"
    releaseDate: 2017-10-12
    support: 2018-10-12
    eol: 2019-04-12
    latest: "1.1.9"
    latestReleaseDate: 2018-10-01

-   releaseCycle: "1.0"
    releaseDate: 2017-05-10
    support: 2018-05-10
    eol: 2018-11-10
    latest: "1.0.7"
---

[CockroachDB](http://cockroachdb.com/) is a distributed SQL database built on a transactional and strongly-consistent key-value store, developed by Cockroach Labs.

> Each major release of CockroachDB goes through the following support cycle:

Reviewer: It could also be mentioned that CockroachDB follows a calendar versioning scheme. No need to details, this link will be enough: https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/#release-naming.

- **Maintenance:** For at least 365 days from the major release date, Cockroach Labs will produce regular patch releases that include critical security fixes and resolutions to problems identified by users.

> - **Assistance:** Following the maintenance support period, Cockroach Labs will provide assistance support for at least an additional 180 days. During this period, the following guidelines will apply:
> 
>   1. New enhancements and error corrections will not be made to the major release.
>   1. Cockroach Labs will direct customers to existing fixes/patches and workarounds applicable to the reported case.
>   1. Cockroach Labs may direct customers to upgrade to a more current version of the product if a workaround does not exist.
>   1. Cockroach Labs will continue to add critical security fixes to the major release in the form of patch releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Assistance:** Following the maintenance support period, Cockroach Labs will provide assistance support for at least an additional 180 days. During this period, patch releases will only include critical security fixes.
```

WDYT of this shorted version ?

>   1. Cockroach Labs will continue to add critical security fixes to the major release in the form of patch releases.

Reviewer: Does this level of support require a subscription ? Or is it available to all users ?

    support: 2021-05-12
    eol: 2021-11-12
    latest: "20.1.17"
    latestReleaseDate: 2021-05-11

-   releaseCycle: "19.2"
    releaseDate: 2019-11-07
    support: 2020-11-12
    eol: 2021-05-12
    latest: "19.2.12"
    latestReleaseDate: 2021-01-12

-   releaseCycle: "19.1"
    releaseDate: 2019-04-24
    support: 2020-04-30
    eol: 2020-10-30
    latest: "19.1.11"
    latestReleaseDate: 2020-06-29

-   releaseCycle: "2.1"
    releaseDate: 2018-10-25
    support: 2019-10-30
    eol: 2020-04-30
    latest: "2.1.11"
    latestReleaseDate: 2020-01-22

-   releaseCycle: "2.0"
    releaseDate: 2018-04-03
    support: 2019-04-04
    eol: 2019-10-04
    latest: "2.0.7"
    latestReleaseDate: 2018-11-28

-   releaseCycle: "1.1"
    releaseDate: 2017-10-04
    support: 2018-10-12
    eol: 2019-04-12
    latest: "1.1.9"
    latestReleaseDate: 2018-10-01

-   releaseCycle: "1.0"
    releaseDate: 2017-05-08
    support: 2018-05-10
    eol: 2018-11-10
    latest: "1.0.7"
    latestReleaseDate: 2018-02-11

---

> [CockroachDB](http://cockroachdb.com/) is a distributed SQL database built on a transactional and
> strongly-consistent key-value store, developed by Cockroach Labs.

> Each major release of CockroachDB goes through the following support cycle:
> 
> - **Maintenance**: For at least 365 days from the major release date, Cockroach Labs will produce
>   regular patch releases that include critical security fixes and resolutions to problems
>   identified by users.
> - **Assistance**: Following the maintenance support period, Cockroach Labs will provide assistance
>   support for at least an additional 180 days. During this period, patch releases will only include
>   critical security fixes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CockroachDB follows a three-component [calendar versioning scheme](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/docs/releases/#release-naming).
Each CockroachDB release is supported for a minimum of 18 months, which is divided into two periods:

- Maintenance Support: for at least 12 months, the release is actively supported with bug and
  security fixes.
- Assistance Support: for at least 6 months after that, the release is supported with critical
  security fixes only.
```

Mention calver scheme and make the paragraph more neutral.
